# CodeGenies: Task Graph-Based Software Development Team with SLMs

This project aims to create a natural language-based platform that allows development teams to work efficiently by integrating artificial intelligence to automate architecture design, code development, and testing activities. The project utilizes small language models (SLMs).

## Requirements

- Python 3.11 (Tested with Python 3.11.9)
- Conda or Miniconda installed
- LLM agents installed locally with Ollama (Codegemma, Mistral, Llama-3)

## Project Setup

### Installing Ollama

1. **Download and Install Ollama:**
   - Visit the [official Ollama website](https://ollama.ai) and follow the instructions to download and install the software.

2. **Configure the Models:**
   - You will need the following models installed and configured in Ollama:
     - [phi3:14b-medium-128k-instruct-q4_K_M](https://ollama.com/library/phi3:14b-medium-128k-instruct-q4_K_M) (Analyst)
     - [codegemma:7b-instruct-v1.1-q4_K_M](https://ollama.com/library/codegemma:7b-instruct-v1.1-q4_K_M) (Developer)
     - [llama3:8b-instruct-q4_K_M](https://ollama.com/library/llama3:8b-instruct-q4_K_M) (Squad Leader)
   - If desired, you can change these names to your preferred models in the `main.py` file. Make sure to download the corresponding models from the [Ollama Library](https://ollama.com/library/).

3. **Start the Models:**
   - Ensure that the models are running and accessible so the agents can communicate with them. Check the ports used and adjust your firewall or router settings as necessary.

### Project Configuration

To set up this project, follow the steps below:

1. **Create a Project Folder:**
   - Create a folder with the name of your project.

2. **Create a Conda Environment for the Project:**
   - Create a conda environment with the name of your project:
   ```
      conda create -n codegenies python=3.11
   ```
   - Activate the environment and check its status:
   ```
      conda activate codegenies
      conda info
   ```

3. **Install Project Dependencies:**
   - Install the dependencies from the `requirements.txt` file:
   ```
      pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. **Configure the `project.properties` File:**
- Use a text editor to edit a file named `project.properties` with the following content:
  ```
  # Project Title and Description
  title=
  description=
  author=

  # Complete Technical Details of the Project
  technical_details=

  # Technologies used in the project layers
  backend_technology=
  backend_file_extension=
  frontend_technology=
  frontend_file_extension=
  ```

5. **Start External Services:**
- Ensure that the models installed locally [via the Ollama Library](https://ollama.com/library/) or from external services (such as [Hugging Face](https://huggingface.co/models?sort=downloads&search=gguf)) are running and accessible to communicate with the project. Check the ports used and adjust your firewall or router settings as necessary.

6. **Run the Main Script:**
- Run the `main.py` file.
- Example: `python main.py`

7. **Configure New Agents:**
- Create new agents in the `agents` folder as needed for your project to perform various tasks, such as generating structure files, folders, or code files.

## Running the Project

To run the project, follow these steps:

1. **Start External Services:**
- Ensure that the models installed locally (via Ollama) or from external services (such as Hugging Face) are running.

2. **Run the Main Script:**
- Run the `main.py` file, passing the name of your project and the location of the `project.properties` file as parameters.
- The system will start generating initial reports for each agent and creating the folder and code structure according to the respective activity backlogs generated by the analyst.

3. **Work on the Code:**
- Developers will work in their respective project folders, implementing their code according to the backlogs.

4. **Test the Code:**
- The tester should perform tests and add them to their separate folder within the project.
- The team should work together to test the produced code and fix any errors found.

5. **Generate Reports:**
- When ready, the system generates a complete report with the agents' information and the test results performed by the tester.

6. **Update the Project:**
- You can return to the beginning of the project to update information, backlogs, and reports, generating a new file structure as needed.

## Project Folder Structure
- The project folder structure will be organized as follows:
```
project_name/
├── agents/
│   ├── analyst.py
│   ├── squad_leader.py
│   ├── developer_backend.py
│   ├── developer_frontend.py
│   └── tester.py
├── build/
│   ├── dev/
│   │   ├── backend_developer/
│   │   ├── frontend_developer/
│   │   └── tester/
│   ├── reports/
│   │   ├── relatório_geral_do_projeto.txt
│   │   ├── backend_tasks_backlog.txt
│   │   ├── frontend_tasks_backlog.txt
│   │   └── testes_tasks_backlog.txt
│   └── README.md
├── project.properties
└── main.py
```

## Contribution

Feel free to contribute to this project. If you have any questions or encounter issues, open an issue or send a pull request.

---

**Enjoy integrating artificial intelligence into your development teams with CodeGenies!**